---
date: 2020-06-07T05:14:00-06:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Brandon"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "God of Reconciliation"
draft: false
---

## 2 Corinthians 5

Paul continues to inform the Corinthians how they are ministers of the new covenant and the call to seek Christ as opposed to the things of the world. He goes onto talk about our heavenly bodies and the eternal life we have in Christ. That is the hope; though we are in this world with our earthly bodies, we can look on with confidence to our resurrection bodies in heaven. In verse 6 Paul writes, “So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord, for we walk by faith, not by sight.” What gives Paul this courage (or boldness)? What makes him confident to say that they are ALWAYS of good courage? I believe it’s their faith and confidence in Christ and who Christ is to them. When we have tasted and seen the goodness of the Lord, it should prompt us to respond in a manner that’s similar to Paul. John 16:33 says, “I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world.” There is peace in Christ. Though we may be in this world, God has overcome it and he is with us. How comforting is that!

He then goes on to mention how we are a new creation in Christ. The old has gone and the new has come. We take off our old bodies and put on our resurrected bodies of Christ. Paul goes onto explain to the Corinthians how they’ve been given the ministry of reconciliation. How Christ is reconciling them back to Him. In the same way, Christ is constantly doing that for us and with us. For all the times that I’ve turned away from the Lord, He relentlessly pursues because of His vast love for me. And the more I think about it, it just doesn’t make any sense. Even when I run away from Christ, His pursuit is never-ending. His arms are wide open, like a father anticipating the return of his child. This chapter in particular reminds me of the parables in Luke 15. How Christ would leave the 99 and run after the one. This isn’t to say that Christ doesn’t love the 99, but the love He has for that one lost sheep is relentless.

The thought of being born again, or being a new creation is still a thought that brings me back to my former days before I knew Christ. I was full of pride, lust, greed, jealousy, and so much more. The worst part was not even acknowledging them. My heart was held captive by the lies/deceptions of what’s true and desirable that the Devil placed in my mind. So when I did accept Christ into my life and started looking inward, much healing has taken place. “All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation…” (V18). I did absolutely nothing to deserve this grace and forgiveness. All this is from God. He doesn’t count our trespasses against us (V19) because Jesus’ ministry was to save us from them. How beautiful is that!

The more I think I’m ready to be in a relationship, I feel another tug from God saying there’s so much more to life than finding a companion. It’s humbling and so against what my flesh desires, but at the same time, the more I meditate upon it, the more I feel the call to follow him. There’s this TV series called “The Chosen” which portrays Jesus’ ministry. Unlike some Christian films, I personally believe this one is well produced and has fairly good acting. One episode depicts the story of when Jesus calls Andrew and Simon. The two brothers are out looking for fish when Jesus sees them. We all know the story; Jesus tells them to cast their net on the other side of the boat and to their amazement, they gather more than a boat’s worth of fish. And then Jesus tells them to follow him and they immediately do.

His calling is simple. Love Him, love others, and invite others into the ministry of reconciliation. I pray that I might seek more of Him in my daily life.