---
date: 2020-06-30T05:14:00-06:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Nathan"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "I am yours, O Jesus"
draft: false
---

# [1 Chronicles 12:16-18](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Chronicles+12%3A16-18&version=ESV)

At the time, David was finding refuge from Saul in the land of the Philistines. Some Israelites, perhaps anticipating the ruin that was coming to Saul and his family (or simply preferring David and his fabled heroics), came to desert to David’s side. To these men, David extends an invitation, saying “If you have come to me in friendship to help me, my heart will be joined to you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, although there is no wrong in my hands, then may the God of our fathers see and rebuke you.” (verse 17) Clothed by the Holy Spirit, the Israelites respond, “We are yours, O David, and with you, O son of Jesse!” And finally, these Israelites are placed as officers over David’s troops (verse 18).

But consider who these men are, that came to David in the wilderness--the Benjamites and Judahites (verse 16). Putting aside the Judahites, the Benjamites were Saul’s kin--that very “adversary” of whom David is speaking of. David would have all reason to be suspicious of their intentions. Not only that, David goes out to meet and receive them himself. He completely offers himself into the hands of potential enemies. Yet he extends an invitation in goodwill, offering to them a covenant of mutual faithfulness.

Consider also how nondescript these men are. In the paragraph immediately prior to this, the men of Gad who came to join David were described as great warriors “whose faces were like the faces of lions and who were swift as gazelles upon the mountains” (verse 8) and “the least [of whom] was a match for a hundred men and the greatest for a thousand” (verse 14). In the paragraph immediately after, the men from Manasseh were “mighty men of valor and commanders in the army” (verse 21). With men like these, one could forgive and understand David’s decision to accept them; their prospects were too irresistible to deliberate over potential risks. But these Benjamites? What could they offer to David?

Then who are *we* to Jesus, that he would extend an invitation to us? What are we able to offer to him, that he would meet and receive us? The gospel connection is vivid: Jesus comes out and meets with us; he offers an invitation to us. Then, we, clothed and enabled by the Holy Spirit, accept this invitation and are given office in Christ’s kingdom. But this connection is clarified further when we consider that we indeed “betrayed [Jesus] to his adversaries”! Who *are* we to Jesus? Who are we if not Judas, or his very adversaries themselves? Who are we but those who crucified him! (Acts 2:36) But Jesus chose, instead of offering us up to God’s judgment, to take the “wrong in *our* hands” into his own and let God’s rebuke fall on himself. Considering this, what else can we say in response besides, “I am yours, O Jesus. I am yours, O son of David!”

Now, imagine the Benjamites were offered positions as officers of David’s troops. Would any of them refuse? Of course not! The recipients of such grace would dutifully oblige, even in the absence of confidence or military prowess. When they said, “We are yours, O David,” they pledged their allegiance to him. Of course they would obey. I’d also like you to imagine the scene of Peter, as he is talking with Jesus on the shore after the resurrection. We know of the compassion with which Jesus addressed Peter. But imagine that Peter, when asked by Jesus to “feed [his] sheep,” said “No, I will not.” Would such a thing even be remotely possible? Of course not! The one who betrayed Jesus and yet is forgiven would feel such gratitude and duty that refusal would be unthinkable. “The one who is forgiven much loves much”.

It’s difficult to imagine the Benjamites refusing office among David’s troops. It’s impossible to imagine Peter rejecting Jesus’ sheep. In that case, how is it that we have the audacity to refuse the office that Christ gives us? Do we consider ourselves of more merit than the Benjamites? Do we think we have betrayed Christ any less than Peter? Then why is it that we say, “I will not serve at this church; I don’t feel that I belong. I will not love the people God gave to me; it’s much too difficult. I will not live for Christ; my life is my own.”

There are two things we need to understand about the Benjamites and about Peter. First, the position as officers is an extension of grace. All who were already with David know who the Benjamites are and know the tribulation David is suffering at the hands of the most prominent of their tribe (Saul). At best, the other Israelites in David’s camp would be skeptical of them. At worst, these Israelites would despise the Benjamites. But by giving them official positions in his army, David gave them a place within his encampment and his community. Any disrespect or maltreatment towards the Benjamites would have been an insult to David’s authority that placed them there. David gave the Benjamites work and he gave them a *home*. When Christ gives us an office in his kingdom, he does the same. It is when we begin to serve at a church that we truly feel a part of it. It is when we reach out to our local community that it truly becomes our home.

Second, the thing that drove the Benjamites to obedience was not obligation to David’s troops, but to David himself. The thing that drove Peter to obedience was not love for the sheep, but foremostly love for Jesus. The thing, then, that needs to drive us to obedience is, firstly, love for Jesus. When we reflect upon the grace which we have received, obedience should be the natural response. Refusal to obey, then, is a sign of a lack of love for Christ.

Which brings us to me, in my refusal to love the people of Turkey. My prayer is: “Lord, let me not forget how much I have been forgiven. Let me not grow calloused to the magnitude of grace which I have received. Help me to love you, that I may love your sheep. Help me to view the office you have given me as a privilege, as a home. Clothe me, O Holy Spirit, that I may truthfully respond to your invitation with, ‘I am yours, O Jesus. I with you, O son of David’.”