---
date: 2020-05-16T07:14:00-06:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Brandon"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "God of Comfort"
draft: false
---
# 2 Corinthians 1:1-11

This is the second letter to the church of Corinth from the Apostle Paul and in a similar way, he starts off his letter by stating who he is. “Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy our brother.” What do we know Paul to be? An apostle of Jesus called by God. This is the same Paul who was persecuting the church. The same Paul who after encountering God in a dramatic fashion, his eyes are opened (quite literally) and is baptized. And what do we hear about him afterwards? That “immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying, ‘He is the Son of God.’” (Acts 9:20). This is what we know of Paul. After persecuting Jesus, he then goes on to proclaim His very name to people all around the world. How bold is that! And how firm is his understanding of his identity in Christ!

We know that Paul is an apostle of Christ and from the first letter, I believe there’s a theme of repentance throughout the chapters. The Corinthians are arrogant, sexually immoral, and divided and Paul is coming by God’s will to deliver this message of repentance. In the context of the first chapter here, we hear Paul describe one of the many attributes of God, “the God of all comfort” (V3). Our God is not one who stays idol and watches us as we go through hardships (yes, that may be part of his wrath when we are unrepentant towards our sin), but he is a God “who comforts us in all our affliction” (V4). When I hear that, I feel like I’m being tugged in two different directions, one is toward a narrow path, and the other is toward a wide open path created by the world. How often do I sway towards that wide open path. The path that is filled with deception, lies, and only temporal satisfaction. And on the other end, the narrow path which leads to comfort, joy, peace, eternal life, is the path my heart and my mind should immediately run to when encountering affliction or hardship.

Paul continues in verse 4, “so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.” Now do the Corinthians know what “comfort” Paul is talking about? Have they experienced God’s comfort? How can they comfort others when they haven’t experienced God’s comfort first hand? I ask myself the same questions. Am I in a place where I’m comforting others with God’s comfort? And if not, then is my assistance, presence, or guidance really effective to this brother/sister in Christ? Unfortunately, I do not ask myself these questions as often as I should when I’m lending advice. It’s most likely due to my pride, but I’m grateful there’s conviction from the Holy Spirit.

Paul goes on to inform the Corinthians about suffering and affliction, especially the affliction he experienced in Asia. “For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself” (V9). I’m sure many of us have felt burdened or weighed down by the weight of everything going on in our lives. But the hope is in the next verse: “But that was to make us rely not on ourselves but on God who raises the dead” (V10). How amazing is it that we have a God who comforts us in all affliction and also raises the dead! That’s the encouragement and hope Paul is giving to the Corinthians. God delivered Paul from that mess and he is going to deliver the Corinthians from their sin as well.

I can’t imagine what life would be like if Christ wasn’t in my life. He’s given me comfort and his peace that transcends all understanding. It doesn’t make any sense, especially with everything that’s going on. But that’s who God is. I pray that I might know Christ a little bit more each day.