---
date: 2020-06-13T05:14:00-06:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Nathan"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "The Peter in All Of Us"
draft: false
---

# [John 13](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=John+13&version=ESV)

There is a wonderfully insightful interaction between Jesus and Peter that happens in verses 1-11. Jesus, with his imminent ultimate tribulation in mind, washes his disciples’ feet. Motivated by his love for the father, he washes his disciples’ feet (verse 3). As Jesus approaches Peter, Peter questions him, “Are you really about to wash my feet?” When Jesus gives an unsatisfactory response, Peter proudly asserts his affections for Jesus: “There is no way I’m going to let you do that, Jesus. You are my lord, and, if anything, *I* should be the one to wash *your* feet!” (verses 6-7) Jesus responds: “If I do not wash you, you have no share with me” (verse 8). Then Peter says, “Oh, well then, go ahead. Please.”

I suspect that, here, Peter’s idea of the Christ is still heavily influenced by his Jewish heritage, along with its ideas of a glorious, militaristic Messiah. The idea that a meek and humble man could be a savior was incomprehensible. Of course, Peter had heard Jesus’ teachings that were contradictory to his beliefs and was perhaps opening up to the true person of Christ. Yet, in the preceding chapter, Peter witnessed the triumphal entry and heard a booming voice from heaven answering Jesus’ call (John 12:27-29). Peter may have thought to himself, “Yeah, this is more like it! This is what being on Christ’s side should be like!” So now, Peter’s zeal for Christ has been ignited. He’ll do anything to remain a part of Christ’s faction. While his remarks may not be completely disingenuous, he is definitely brown-nosing Jesus in this chapter.

But the frailty of Peter’s devotion is highlighted in the famous conversation that takes place in verses 36-38. Jesus tells Peter, just as he did to all the disciples earlier, and to the Jewish crowds, “Where I am going you cannot follow.” Peter says, “No way! I can follow you anywhere; I’d even die for you?” This remark elicits a response from Christ: “Oh really? Well actually, you’ll have a chance to die for me, but instead you’ll deny me. Three times, in fact.”

I don’t know the common response to reading these conversations, but I find Peter unfortunately relatable. How readily do I speak of my devotion to Christ? “I’ll serve you, Lord! I’ll wash your feet! I’ll even die for you!” A colloquialism I first heard a few years ago went something like this: “It’s easy to die for Christ. It is truly difficult to live for Christ.” And I believed this to be true. I earnestly believed that if I were to be held at gunpoint and given the choice between denouncing Christ or death, I could faithfully remain silent. But is that so? Is dying for Christ really *that* easy? The reason I was convinced of the truth behind this saying was because to live for Christ, one had to *die* every day. Living for Christ is impossibly difficult because it requires making these choices between Christ and the world every single day. But to die for Christ, faced with those extreme circumstances? I could do that. It’s a quick, simple choice.

But what gets me is the ease of choosing the other option. As I’m learning about the early church from podcasts, I am hearing many stories of the early persecution and martyrs. And, in most cases, the martyrs were given choices between denying that they were a Christian and slow, excruciating torture. Their options were between saying one quick sentence, or being flogged to death, torn apart by animals, burned alive... In that case, what’s the big deal with just saying a few words? Couldn’t they have just gone home and repented? If they survived to see another day, couldn’t they spend a longer life glorifying God? Isn’t that better than dying so soon?

Obviously, a good Christian should know better. But a good Christian should also recognize the enormous temptation provided in such a choice, for Peter and for himself--because Peter’s case was very similar. Peter’s choice was between saying “No,” and probably being crucified alongside Jesus (John 18). It is so, so easy to choose the first option. There is no reason for me to think that I would be better.

How am I so sure? Because as I said before, living for Christ means dying to ourselves every day. But I don’t do that. When faced with millions of choices between Christ and something much less drastic than keeping my own life (like comfort, money, success, pleasure), I fail to choose Christ. If I need to be more explicit: every time I choose to be selfish instead of loving, pursue pleasure over purity, or compromise my Christian morality for anything lesser, I am guilty of the same denial as Peter. In other words, **I am guilty of denying Jesus every single day**. Yet I, unabashed yet completely naive, proclaim my allegiance to Jesus. “I will serve you! I will wash your feet! I will die for you!” But each of those statements make me a liar.

What is particularly piercing is Jesus’ words in verses 12-17. “Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet. For I have given you an example, that you also should do just as I have done to you. Truly, truly, I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.”

Do I really understand what Jesus has done to his disciples, and to me? Jesus, the Prince of heaven, knowing fully that God has given everything in the world to him (verse 3) and that he was about to retake his rightful heavenly throne, humbly washed his disciples’ feet. If Jesus can cast aside all pride and comfort and do such a loving act, why should I not be able to do the same? If Jesus can love the least of these (keep in mind, Jesus even washed Judas’ feet), why should I not love the people around me (who have not sold me to be crucified)? In these words, Jesus makes the reason clear: I consider myself greater than he. I don’t want to believe this, but apparently that’s what I think. I consider myself greater than Jesus. Else, why would I, supposedly his servant, not do the same things that he does?

So, my conclusion is that I am horribly depraved. I am hypocritical to the degree that I consider myself greater than the Divine. Then what hope is there? In verse 36, Jesus says to Peter, “Where I am going you cannot follow me *now*, but you will follow *afterward*”. The reason Jesus provides for us being able to wash one another’s feet is because Christ washed ours. The reason we will, then, be able to die for Christ is because he died for us first. Yes, Peter denied Jesus. But Peter was later transformed by the power of the gospel. In John 21:19, the scriptures mention that Peter died a death glorifying to God, hinting at martyrdom. So Jesus was right. Peter did follow afterward. In the cross, Peter’s claims of devotion were vindicated. In the cross, our own lies will become true. Perhaps we will continue to fail, continue to deny Jesus. But we know--we are assured in Jesus’ promise--that we will follow him *afterward*.