---
date: 2020-09-18T14:25:05-04:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Nathan"]
title: "Emptying the Cross"
categories: Devo
---

# [1 Corinthians 1](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Corinthians+1&version=ESV)

Random Observation: Paul’s uncertainty of those whom he baptized in verse 16 is strange. You would think he would remember something like that.

Verse 17:
>But Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.

In this verse, Paul does a few things. First, he recognizes the division of roles allotted to churchmen by God. He also recognizes *his* role as one who preaches the gospel, rather than someone who [trains and] baptizes men. Second, he mentions the “power of Christ’s cross,” and even pits “eloquent wisdom” against it. But how can it be so? Is not wisdom a good thing?

Yes, and an abundance of scriptural references can attest to that (Proverbs 1:1, 1 Kings 3:10, among many). Wisdom in itself is a wonderful, good thing; it is certainly a godly pursuit. But even wisdom can be polluted by sin, for which Solomon’s promiscuity provides a great example. Paul is writing about another way in which sin taints good wisdom.

Verses 18 - 25 read:
>For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. For it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart.” Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach[b] to save those who believe. For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.

In this paragraph, the wisdom of man is in contention with the power of God. But does this mean all Christians are to be fools? No. Child-like faith is not willful ignorance; it is the endurance of faith in the midst of uncertainty. But wisdom in itself is insufficient. The cross dwarfs the wisdom of man in comparison (v18), and the wisdom of God is certainly superior (v25). But verses 22-23 suggest there is a time when wisdom becomes a barrier between us and the cross. When is this? It is when we convince ourselves that wisdom *can* be sufficient.

There are two unfortunate parties described in verse 22: namely the Jews who seek signs and the Greeks who seek wisdom. To these Jews and Greeks with their respective aims, the gospel is said to be a stumbling block (v23). Again, Jesus is (almost paradoxically) referred to as a *stumbling block*. To see how this can be so, let us look at a similar instance.

>Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone, as it is written, “Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense; and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.” (Romans 9:32-33)

See, the cross becomes a stumbling block to us *only* when we believe we do not need it. The gospel message is that we are utterly unable to acquire salvation by ourselves, thus Christ had to die for us. But this message is an “offense” to us if we root our hope for salvation in something of ourselves, e.g. wisdom. The Greeks were like this. The Greeks loved philosophy; and they certainly believed “salvation,” or perhaps truth, could be attained through philosophy. But apart from Christ, there is no salvation.

Why is Paul relieved that “no one can say that [they] were baptized in [Paul’s] name?” (v15) Because Paul knows that there is no salvation in *his* name, only in Christ’s. But surely the bickering Christians of Corinth (v11-12) knew this; they were merely discussing which apostle they would follow and whose authority they would adhere to. But even in this, there is a trap. For Christ must make the whole of the foundations of our salvation; there can not be *anything* else mixed in. The Corinthians’ failure to recognize Jesus as their head authority demonstrates that they missed this. Alongside Christ lay Paul, Peter or Apollos in their hearts. They thought to themselves, “Because I follow this man (who is not Christ), my salvation is legitimate.” But our salvation rests on Christ and on Christ alone. When we add things to the equation of our salvation, we “empty” the cross of its power. **When we add to the cross, we subtract its entirety.**

There is an interpersonal application, as demonstrated by Paul here. As Christians, we seek to teach others about Christ. But when we make the mistake of thinking that our words, knowledge, or even personalities can somehow contribute to the salvation of the listener, then we have credited their salvation to our eloquence, our wisdom, or our charisma. Yes, a proper explanation of the gospel is required for a proper understanding. But the gospel is a simple truth; lengthy, elaborate elucidation is hardly necessary and can even lead to an invasion of our personality into the gospel, ridding it of its power. In other words, the salvific power of the gospel is completely independent of our ability to present it. A clumsy, yet simple presentation is better than a flamboyant demonstration of our own showmanship.

But there exists a personal application, as well. For this, let us read the last verses of the chapter.

>For consider your calling, brothers: not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise; God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong; God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are, so that no human being might boast in the presence of God. And because of him you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption, so that, as it is written, “Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.”

The first verse reveals a difficult truth about myself. I love wisdom, but not because I fear the Lord. Wisdom and intelligence are two pillars of my identity, upon which rests my self-security. Why is it that I find struggling to communicate with my limited Turkish so frustrating? It is because people inherently connect language with competence; and my ego cannot deal with someone doubting my intelligence. My identity would be compromised.

Consequently, I have difficulty inserting myself into the audience of this paragraph. That is, I cannot consider myself among those who were not “wise according to worldly standards,” or the “foolish in the world”. Consider, then, the readers--the Corinthian church. Would they not have been offended in a similar light by Paul’s words? The following sentences serve to appease the reader, but these words have no power unless we are able to acknowledge our own “foolishness” and “weakness”.

There is, however, something of particular interest. In the first sentence, Paul uses the phrase “not many of you,” suggesting that there may indeed be some among the Corinthian church who *are* wise or of noble birth. And if that were all, perhaps the readers can find comfort by considering themselves among those fortunate few. But the next sentence establishes a certain absoluteness that almost contradicts the first: “God chose what is foolish...weak...low...even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are”. This idea is hardly novel to a veteran church-goer. And while these sentences do not imply that God *only* chooses the foolish (or weak, or low, etc.), I argue that this must be true. Else, there is no merit in being among these outcasts. If the wise, powerful, and noble are also chosen by the Lord, what good is it to be otherwise? How could the Beatitudes be true? How can the low be considered blessed, if the high are also?

If we then can accept that God *must only* choose the foolish, we arrive at two possibilities. First, there exist some Christians who are simply not chosen to participate in God’s work (because the wise and powerful Christians would not be chosen). This thought is simply chilling. The other possibility is that *every* Christian is among the “foolish, weak, and low”. But in order for this to be true, we must slightly redefine this group. Consider King David. David was certainly a man considered wise, powerful, and noble, even in the world. Yet he was absolutely used by the Lord. Then, can it be that this idea of foolishness, weakness, or lowliness, is not to be compared to the world, but to the Lord? For there are certainly some Christians whom the world would consider great. But what are man’s wisdom, power and glory compared to the Lord’s?

God has blessed us individually with our own unique talents and strengths. But if we stake our identities in these gifts, we become so fragile; for when these are taken away, we crumble. When I present myself to other people, I seek to present the parts of my character that I consider to be profitable and respectable. I want those around me to understand what is valuable in me (in my case, intelligence would certainly be among those things). When I feel that these “valuable” characteristics are not properly communicated to the other person, I become insecure. On the other hand, when I can convince the other person that these attributes of mine are indeed noteworthy, then I am validated. But when I present myself to the Lord, what good are these attributes; what value do they hold? My knowledge, my wisdom, my power...these are all *nothing* compared to those of the Lord (v29). When we acknowledge the relative worthlessness of our own merits, then we can embrace the merit of the gospel. When we recognize that even the best of our qualities bring us no closer to salvation, then we can understand our need for Jesus. This is the great Pharisaical barrier--the stumbling stone, the folly to the Gentiles: for when we fail to do these things, we blind ourselves to the power of the cross.

But how secure is our foundation when we rest solely upon Jesus! When our identity is in Christ, our insecurity vanishes. For what can take away the value of Christ in us? Our intelligence, power, money, fame, can all crumble away, taking our self-worth with them. But Christ remains. So when we present ourselves to the Lord, he sees the unsurpassable value of Christ. This is our validation. This is our worth. This is our salvation. Let him who boasts, boast in Jesus.