---
date: 2020-07-06T05:14:00-06:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Nathan"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "The Mercy Seat"
draft: false
---
# [1 Chronicles 13](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=1+Chronicles+13&version=ESV)

Summary of text: After David is established as king and settled in Jerusalem, he suggests bringing the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem, in order that the capital city can also be the holy city (remember, this is before the building of the temple). Israel agrees to this idea, and they set out on a fancy campaign to bring the Ark from Kiriath-jearim, where it stayed for a few years after it was stolen and promptly returned by the Philistines. The Ark is carried on a cart (which is not how they were supposed to move the Ark; rather, it was supposed to be carried on the shoulders of priests). Uzzah, one of the people who was watching the cart, noticed the cart begin to stumble and reached out to touch the Ark (which, again, he was not supposed to do!). When he did so, God struck him dead. When David heard of this, he became upset at God, and then fearful. So he left the Ark at Obed-edom’s place, who was then greatly blessed by the Lord.

Before discussing this story, a small discourse concerning the Ark may be necessary. The Ark was an ornately carved box made of acacia wood and gold. The two tablets, on which the Ten Commandments were carved, were kept inside this box. On top of the box was a golden lid with two crafted cherubim on its sides. This lid was called the mercy seat. The mercy seat represented God’s throne as he dwelt with Israel, and the Ark itself represented the promise that existed between God and Israel (namely that he would be their God, and Israel would be his people) ([Exodus 25](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Exodus+25%3A10-22&version=ESV)). On this mercy seat, the high priest would make a yearly sacrifice of atonement on behalf of all Israel (the Day of Atonement). This sacrifice took place in the Most Holy Place (in the tabernacle, later the temple), which only the high priest was allowed to enter--[and only once a year, at that](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Leviticus+16&version=ESV).

Now, in this story, we have three different perspectives to consider: Uzzah, David, and Obed-Edom. Uzzah’s story may be the most problematic for most. First, why would God strike down Uzzah for simply touching the Ark? In fact, in the 2 Samuel 6 account of this story, we can see some more details. Uzzah noticed that the oxen pulling the cart stumbled, and in anticipation of the Ark falling onto the ground, Uzzah reached out and touched the Ark to keep it steady. As aforementioned, touching the Ark was [strictly taboo](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Numbers+4%3A15&version=ESV). Still, Uzzah was trying to “help,” doesn’t this seem a bit extreme? If this thought comes to mind, we are guilty of the same sin as Uzzah (and David)--irreverence. Perhaps Uzzah did have good intentions. One could even argue that he reached out to steady the Ark in order to preserve God’s dignity. But this idea further exemplifies our irreverence. If we ever think that we are somehow able to contribute to God’s dignity, if our thoughts ever suggest that we are somehow capable of helping the Lord, then we have already tarnished his dignity ourselves. Our irreverence is this: we have diminished God into someone who needs our help to be great and glorious. God is our helper; it is never the case vice versa. We are enlisted as God’s workers, but this position is granted to us by his grace. We did not earn our keep as his workers. There is no situation in which we can claim to have helped God.

But Uzzah’s story is unfortunately even more relatable. For if we wonder how this irreverence came to be, we can likely find ourselves in a similar situation. The Ark stayed in Uzzah’s household for many years. We can infer that, during these years, Uzzah did not touch the Ark because he was not struck dead during these years. It’s easy to imagine the reverence with which he must have first treated the Ark. The Ark was something that was well-known and (should have been) revered by all Israel; it represented the presence of God. It was taken into battle by judges, kings and prophets. And for a layman like Uzzah to have it in his house would have been a terrifying honor. He must have felt that he was housing the king of Israel for those many years (and such a perspective was not far from the truth)! But with time comes familiarity and, with familiarity, complacency. What was once thrilling and terrifying is later banal and boring. Isn’t it strange how the passion held by those who attend church since childhood pales in comparison with the passion of those newly converted? We grow calloused to the gospel because we hear it every Sunday (that is, if we attend a good church) and the greatest message of all becomes little more than a children’s fable. This feeds into a vicious, fatal cycle because as the gospel becomes less interesting, God becomes less amazing. As God becomes less, the gospel becomes nothing. Reading the bible becomes a chore at best, a nuisance at worst. Sunday church attendance becomes a means of feeding our self-righteousness, a pharisaical justification for the way we live the other six days of the week.

Contrary to the lackadaisical Uzzah, there is David. O, with what fervor and excitement David must have been bringing the Ark to Jerusalem! With what great anticipation must he have been thinking about restoring the tabernacle to its proper place in the Holy of Holies. Verse 8 tells us that David and all Israel were “celebrating before God with all their might”. I wonder if he had already been thinking about building the temple--a house in which God can dwell among Israel. But once disaster struck (Uzzah, specifically), all the pomp and circumstance ceased. When Uzzah died, David became angry *at* God. He was angry, then fearful. So fearful, he completely changed his mind about how wonderful it would be to live in the same city as the Ark and placed it in the house of some random Levite.

I don’t believe David was wrong in bringing the Ark to Jerusalem, as some have argued. However, he was wrong in the manner in which the Ark was carried. We know the Ark was supposed to have been carried upon the shoulders of Levites, using the golden poles that were a part of the Ark’s design. Carrying it via cart, however, demonstrates David’s own irreverence. Passion can be a wonderful thing. Passion can lead to a thirst for righteousness; passion can lead to pious living. But passion can also be woefully empty. Passion that is not rooted in the knowledge of God’s Word is brittle. And David was perhaps the person in Israel with the greatest responsibility to have been rooted in this knowledge ([Deuteronomy 17](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Deuteronomy+17%3A18-20&version=ESV)). Ill-equipped with God’s Word, David has the audacity to be upset at God. In other words, he disagrees with the Lord. Is this not clear how this is a demonstration of irreverence?

Again, this situation is painfully relatable. When we reduce Christianity to its basic tenets and refuse to dive past the reassuring, self justifying doctrines, we miss out on them entirely. When we refuse to study God’s Word, we consider God to be no more complicated than the one who created the earth and the one who sent his son to save us. But if people can devote their lives to studying disciplines like science, why do we assume there is no value in studying God, who created the very world which the discipline of science observes? How can God be more finite than the things he has created? How can learning more about God be less rewarding than learning about the things he has made? Yet we do not seek to understand more about God. We may say that we wish to do so, but how often do we truly undertake the endeavor? Is it easy to study science, mathematics or philosophy? Why then should we assume that understanding God would be easier? Why then do we put in considerably less effort into learning about God than we do into learning about these lesser things.

And where does this lack of understanding lead us to? A brittle faith. When we do not understand God, we do not understand his ways. When we do not understand his ways, we find them disagreeable. We become upset, and when we do, our hearts argue that we know better than God. Our hearts argue that God made a mistake. Can such a thing possibly true? Could David have presumed that God mistakenly dealt with Uzzah? This is the irreverence we are guilty of when we do not seek to understand the Lord and this is the terrible destination irreverence brings us to.

Finally, we have Obed-Edom. From what we can observe from scripture, Obed-Edom was a remarkably unremarkable man. His name even means “servant of Edom”. He was a Gittie, which suggests he was either a Levite or a native of Gath (that is, of Philistine, and where Goliath was also from). There simply isn’t much description about Obed-Edom aside from this, except that he was greatly blessed by God while the Ark dwelt in his household. All we can infer is that Obed-Edom treated the Ark with proper reverence because he wasn’t struck dead. But perhaps it is his insignificance that *is* so significant. Scripture doesn’t describe any effort of Obed-Edom in bringing the Ark to his house. There is no mention of any petition or bargaining on his part that brought the Ark to his home; the Ark came to him and he simply received it.

To elucidate this point, I would like to re-mention the mercy seat. The mercy seat, which was on top of the Ark, was essentially an altar on which a sacrifice was made for the atonement of all Israel. The mercy seat foreshadowed Jesus, who became the ultimate sacrifice for all Israel (and the world). Jesus was crucified on the mercy seat; the day of his crucifixion was the Day of Atonement for all the world. But this ultimate Atonement was not something we petitioned or bargained for. We couldn’t. This ultimate Atonement, Jesus, came to us, and we can nothing else but simply receive him. Further, there is nothing about us that beckoned Christ to us. It is Christ’s own love and mercy that compelled him to die, not any of our own merit. When we forget our own insignificance, when we assume ourselves more remarkable than we are, we forget this truth. We forget that Christ died of his own accord for the Obed-Edom’s. And when we forget this, we forget the gospel. This is when irreverence occurs. This is when the gospel and, consequently, God himself shrinks in our eyes. This is when knowing God disappears from our priorities.

But when we do understand our own *paltriness*, we can properly enjoy the presence of God. The mercy seat was once locked away in the Most Holy Place, behind a curtain only the high priest was allowed to pass through. And even the high priest had to properly consecrate himself before entering on the Day of Atonement. But Christ died to grant us entry into the Most Holy Place, into the presence of God. Christ died to bring us, who are sinful layman and far from consecrated, to where we can dwell and enjoy God’s presence. If we can understand this, where is the room for irreverence? I believe Obed-Edom was a man who understood his own insignificance, and was consequently able to understand the significance of being granted the presence of the Lord.

*Jesus, thank you for tearing the curtain. Thank you for graciously bringing me into your courts, where one day surpasses thousands elsewhere. Let me not forget the entry you died to give me. Let me not forget the free gift of grace. Let me not forget that there is nothing in me that can claim worthiness. Teach me to enjoy your presence like Obed-Edom. Keep me away from the complacency of Uzzah. Root me in your teachings, that I may not fall into the displeasure of David. The gospel is amazing. Teach me to be amazed.*