---
date: 2020-09-09
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Victor Tao Liang"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "Praying for Wisdom"
draft: false
---

>9 "Give your servant therefore an understanding mind to govern your people, that I may discern between good and evil, for who is able to govern this your great people?" 10 It pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this. 11 And God said to him, “Because you have asked this, and have not asked for yourself long life or riches or the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern what is right, behold I now do according to your word. 12 Behold, I give you a wise and discerning mind, so that none like you has been before you and none like you shall arise after you. 13 I give you also what you have not asked, both riches and honor, so that no other king shall compare with you, all your days. 14 And if you will walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and my commandments, as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days.” (1 Kings 3:9-14; ESV)

First of all, this conversation happened while the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream. Not many characters in the Bible could claim that they heard the Lord speak to them, but appearing in a dream does come up numerous times as the way God reached people in the Old Testament. Also, Solomon was the one favored by God out of David's sons to be the next king. And, Solomon loved the Lord and followed him (v.3). To begin his kingship, the Lord asked Solomon what he shall give him (v.5). So, Solomon revisited how much steadfast love he has been shown by being given this opportunity to rule (v.6-8), then prayed for wisdom (v.9). He saw the connection between the responsibility he was given and the need for God's word to discern for him what was good and evil.

This sparked in me the story in Genesis of the fall of man. Adam and Eve were given divine command to do the work of spreading paradise on Earth and not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil (Gen. 2:15-17). Though given these commands on what was right and wrong, they went to decide right and wrong for themselves. In contrast, Solomon was given this job to manage God's people, and he seeked only for God to give him discernment. This submission to the Lord was so pleasing precisely because he was only seeking God's will, as if all other things were of no merit to ask in comparison. Given the divine command to govern Israel, he went to petition God for good and evil. In this case, God's wisdom was the only thing he needed to ask to gain favor from his people. Solomon's judgment was so awesome to Israel, that they knew it was from God (v.28). A note I would like to mention is how out of the things God applauded Solomon for not asking for, having a long life was promised conditionally and the lives of his enemies were omitted. It would come to pass that Solomon would not continue walking in righteousness, so he died before reaching 70. This goes to show how not everything one wishes for is under God's will. This logically must be so; God is not a genie granting everybody's wishes. So this passage helps affirm the importance to divorce ourselves from selfish prayers. They are not pleasing to the Lord. Rather, we should hear Jesus invite us to ask whatever of the Father, and pray for an understanding mind. For this will lead us into the truth of what we are to do in this broken world.