---
date: 2020-07-26T01:10:00-06:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Victor Tao Liang"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "Blurry Vision"
draft: false
---

>“Where there is no vision, the people perish…” (Proverbs 29:18; KJV)

Last night, I memorized John 3:14-17. Today, I read 2 Corinthians 8 and 9, which both depict Paul’s call for the Corinthians to give out of their abundance. I didn’t feel like writing about either one of these, so I went on YouTube. Thinking about money made me remember to finish a series by Dave Ramsey, a renowned Christian counselor on finances. In this talk, he discussed tithing from Malachi and 2 Corinthians, while also touching on Genesis, being made in God’s image. He explained how we are just managers of God’s investment. Then, he shared how he himself was hesitant to give to the church until one morning when his son sat in his lap. As he read John 3:16, he looked at his own son, and it all came to him. There was no way he would give his son over to the world. Yet God gave his only Son to the world. I felt convicted that if I were him, I wouldn’t give up my child either.

After sobbing a little, I felt comforted by God. I felt assurance for how perfectly my scripture reading yesterday and today were connected to what Ramsey was discussing, especially to the verse from Proverbs. Obviously money has been on my mind, and God does not want me serving two masters. Why, now, is money on my mind?

Recently, I noticed my hair thinning. As a knee-jerk reaction, I jumped into panic mode, shoulder deep in self-centered fear. Often, my fears revolve around security and sex relations. Beyond the fear of failure, I have fear that I will marry at an old age plus a fear that my spouse will only want me for my money. These fears prevent me from imagining a life where I am happy. Sadly, my resolution has been to repress these thoughts, and I struggle to think about own future. Vacillating between pride and anxiousness, I lament, “What kind of woman wants someone like me? It’ll be two years before I could possibly be in medical school. And that will take four years! AH, then there is residency. When will I start earning money?” I am stranded in confusion. Thank God my sponsor has pointed me to seeking vision by sharing his experience in figuring out what he had to do and navigating his life through disappointments.

Vision is an understanding of God’s will for me. I have done lots of prayer looking for God’s will, but I realize I have not done enough research yet on being a psychiatrist. Naturally, my disordered thoughts hide beneath the surface and fester into fear and despair. I must pray for courage to do this research and faithfully act accordingly. God does not want his children to have a spirit of fear. He wants us to call out to him, “Abba, Father.” Believing in in Son means we are co-heirs of his eternal kingdom. Reading 2 Corinthians made me confused because of how Paul explains that giving means receiving. I don’t believe in the prosperity gospel, but how does this make sense in my own life? It has to do with the intention of my giving. Why do I pursue a MD? Because if it is doing it to give, then yes, God will bless me. Who wouldn’t want a doctor who is generous? But if it is for money as an ends, I will fail. Who would want a doctor who is stingy and mean? I have much work left to be done, yet I trust that my decision to be a doctor has come from a pure desire of my heart. May God give me strength to daily strive towards Christ, who himself had vision for God’s will, concluding his work saying “It is finished.”