---
date: 2020-04-30T10:58:08-04:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["nathan"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "Matthew 19:16-30"
draft: false
---

# [Matthew 19:16-30](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+19%3A16-30&version=ESV)

	There is a fatal snare in the initial question, “What good deed must I do to have eternal life?” (verse 16) The response elucidates the question’s error: “Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good.” (verse 17) We cannot make the mistake of assuming that our salvation is dependent upon our deeds. Here, Christ is hinting that salvation, goodness, is dependent upon the Lord, whom if the man had a relationship with, he would not have needed to ask the question. Further, the “good deeds” that fill the life of someone who is saved would be found in obedience. God has given us laws to obey and if we love him, we ought to do so.

If we investigate the commandments, the “good deeds,” cited by Christ in verses 18 and 19, we notice that they do not ask for the completion of a task, but a lifetime of obedience. Commandments that start with “You shall not…” inherently require a lifetime for “satisfaction” of the law. These are not commands to abstain from murder, adultery, stealing, or false witness, for a brief period of time, but forever! At no point in someone’s life will he be able to check off a box that says he completed this commandment, until the day of his death! The same goes for honoring our parents and, especially, for loving our neighbor. Buying Mother’s Day gifts or doing our chores is not sufficiently honoring our parents. Giving money to the poor or picking up someone’s dropped groceries is not sufficiently loving our neighbors. These are mere instances that *should* be telling of an obedient lifestyle. The intrinsic commitment in these commandments speaks to the longevity of goodness’ requirements.

But this is not what the young man was looking for. He was not interested in a way of life; he wanted a to-do list, not a creed. Why? Because if he was given an assignment that he can turn into the Teacher that would grant him a passing grade for salvation, he could live the rest of his life however he likes. He wanted a license that would not only grant him freedom from responsibility, but freedom from the burden of guilt. This is revealed in the question “All these I have kept. What do I still lack?” (verse 20) If he was so (foolishly) confident in his obedience, he should have walked away feeling content about himself. If it was true that he was perfect in his obedience to these commandments, he should have been able to continue to live in such obedience and arrive at salvation (at least, according to the flow of this conversation). But he understood that he was lacking, so he sought an alternative, an escape.

The young man wanted a task--a quest that could be completed, a holy grail that could be found, an enemy that could be slain. Jesus obliged. But he did so, as always, by delivering the exact answer the young man needed to hear: “If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.” (verse 21) Jesus speaks to what is inside this man’s heart. If he really wanted to be perfect, as he inwardly knows he is not, and if he wanted to address the source of his spiritual dissatisfaction, then he must surrender everything. And this answer drove the young man to despair.

Why did the young man become despondent? Because he came face-to-face with his spiritually crippling desire to live how he wanted. See, the young man did not want a relationship with God; he wanted freedom from God! He wanted to satisfy God so he could be his own god. Jesus asked him to sell his possessions, but the young man realized that he could not. Why is it so difficult for a rich man to enter heaven? Because the more possessions you have, the more difficult it is to let them go. However, these “possessions” are not limited to material wealth; this can be applied to time, to talents, to any sort of blessing. In the middle of a packed schedule, we can give thirty minutes to the Lord. But when we have an abundance of free time, how much of that time do we spend in personal devotions and how much of it do we spend in leisure? Why are less talented laymen more willing to humbly serve on worship teams while the abundantly talented use their gifts to seek fame and self glory? We should not find comfort in verses 23-24 because we may be materially poor; we are equally hopeless as this young man in surrendering everything to the Lord. We have the same desire to hold onto our possessions in hopes of becoming our own gods.

We should instead arrive at the same despair as the disciples when they asked, “Who then can be saved?” (verse 25) We cannot fool ourselves, like this young man, that we are perfect in obedience. We should realize that we would never be able to fully obey these commandments even for a brief period of time, not to mention the required lifetime. But the alternative gives no more hope because we are equally unable to surrender what is ours. Jesus’ answer first sinks us into the greatest depths of despair, then lifts us to the single, greatest hope. “With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.” (verse 27) I don’t know exactly what went through the disciples’ minds when they heard this, but here we can find the only source of hope. Jesus affirms our worries that we cannot be perfectly obedient, and he assures us that we will never be perfectly obedient. But if “with God all things are possible,” what else can we do but turn to him? As present-day people, we know our source of hope: the cross. Because we are unable to be obedient, Christ had to be. Because we had to die for our sins, Christ chose to in our stead.

Then do we find that license to live however we’d like in the cross? Do we arrive at the destination that the young man sought? No. Because in a moment of ingenuity, Peter understood that the Christian life is by definition a life of surrender. “See, we have left everything and followed you.” (verse 27) “Everything” he says! Christ may not call all of us to ever surrender all of our material possessions, but if he so chooses, we should not struggle. Why? Because everything that we own has long since been given to God; all of our possessions are no longer ours. If so, how preposterous is it to spend my time doing whatever I want; my time belongs to the Lord! If so, how ridiculous is it to spend my money on whatever I want; my wealth belongs to the Lord! If so, how absurd is it to spend my talents for my own sake; my talents belong to the Lord! In fact, how dare I continue to prodigally spend these things as if they still were mine! So the first application for myself, as a redeemed Christian, is to understand that my life, and everything in it, belongs to the Lord. That is what it means to be a Christian. That means every second of my time, every ounce of talent, and every cent I possess is used for God’s glory.

Then what does this mean for rest and recreation? It is true that we are commanded to rest. But in the command of resting on the seventh day, we are commanded to be working for six days. As for recreation, I can say, with confidence from anecdotal experience, that there is nothing more gratifying, satisfying, and enjoyable than living for the Lord. The pleasure derived from pursuing the desires of our flesh pale in comparison to the fulfillment provided in glorifying the Lord. I say these things not as mere pious drivel. Because when I lay my head at the end of a productive day of work and personal devotion, I can sleep with a sense of accomplishment. After a day of idleness, I ruefully disdain sleep because I know I wasted the day.

The second application is that I should be wary of complacency. This surrender that we are called to is just as out of reach as a life of perfect obedience; it is something that we strive towards rather than fully achieve. If the thought “I’ve done enough” ever crosses my mind, I have fallen into a pit of spiritual death. Then am I no better off than I was before the cross? No, because while frustration will inevitably be a part of my pursuit of surrender, despair should never be. Instead, I live in gratitude of Jesus taking upon the impossible burden in my stead.

Finally, I am confident in the value of the prize I am seeking. Jesus assures us that everything we give up will be gained a hundredfold. In Matthew 16:26, Christ says, “For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul?” This assures us that the prize we are working towards is worth far more than anything the world can offer.