---
date: 2020-09-21T14:25:05-04:00
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["Victor Tao Liang"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "Hypocritical Loopholes"
draft: false
---
>1 Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem and said, 2 "Why do your disciples break the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat." 3 He answered them, "And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? 4 For God commanded, 'Honor your father and your mother,' and, 'Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.' 5 But you say, "If anyone tells his father or his mother, "What you would have gained from me is given to God," 6 he need not honor his father.' So for the sake of your tradition you have made void the word of God. 7 You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, when he said: 8 "This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me; 9 in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men." (Matthew 15:1-9; ESV)

Along with coming to Jesus to bring guilt upon his disciples, this brood of vipers were looking to take down Jesus's name as a competent leader. The Levitical law only commanded priests to wash their hands before eating holy offerings (Lev. 22:6-7), but it became common practice through these leaders for all of Israel to wash before eating. Jesus steps in to completely tarnish this "Holier-than-Thou" attitude; these speck-finding people believed following the law kept the log out of their own eyes. The wrong that these Israelites had wasn't their clean hands, but their unclean hearts (v.8) It wasn't that eating with unwashed hands defiles a man, but what comes out of their hearts (v.10-20). Jesus is trying to shatter their faulty foundation by pulling back the outward appearance of holiness to expose their tradition of Corban. Corban is a Hebrew term meaning "given to God," referring to goods or money a person vows to dedicate to God. This practice could be exercised by deviant Israelites who wanted to both neglect their parents and look holy doing it. The nature of God revealed in Christ shows how righteous it is to offer ourselves, even our life, to God the father. Earthly relationships were made in His image, so God made a serious commandment on honoring parents. Israel were to respect and love their parents, even with their money. However, Corban was a wicked way to use the command to honor every vow made to the Lord as a loophole to avoid following this commandment. They essentially took good and evil into their own hands.

When I see exclamation marks, I assume yelling, so v.7 pops out at me. I'm brought to wonder what hypocrisy Jesus can rebuke in me. But isn't it wrong to think I am anything like those sinners? Jesus saved us from punishment of our sin by being our Passover lamb. So why should we worry about our sin? Well, God must have loved us so much to enact such a will of salvation. Though resurrected, the unjust crucifixion of Jesus cost him his life, so we not only owe him our life through his creation, but also a debt of gratitude for the gospel. This outpouring of joy is an exclamation opposite to Jesus's words of "You hypocrites!" It is saying to the Lord, "My God!" So, it is out of this grace that we can explore our deepest sins without fear. Jesus saved us from the condemnation of sin, and his work through the Holy Spirit extends to the grip of sin. Knowing where we will go emboldens us to look at ourselves honestly.

While writing this devotional itself is somewhat of a doctrine taught by men, I have found that it is okay to submit to such activities as long as we aren't making it the thing that sets us apart as God's people. Just like washing your hands before eating doesn't make you holy, we shouldn't feel the need to seek holiness in anything but Christ. However, Jesus doesn't call hand-washing hypocritical behavior. He calls the loopholes of these "law-following" Israelites hypocritical. With the gospel in mind, we focus on our hearts and the hearts of those around us. We can choose to wash our hands and still refrain from condemning our fellow brothers and sisters who refuse to; we can even forego preaching to non-yet-brothers and sisters about hand-washing to preach Jesus. For with the truth of Jesus, we may shed the ego's desires to being "Holier-than-Thou" and find fulfillment in doing what matters to God.