---
date: 2020-05-10
description: ""
featured_image: ""
tags: ["nathan"]
categories: "Devo"
title: "The Parable of the Talents"
draft: false
---

# [Matthew 25:14-30](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Matthew+25%3A14-30&version=ESV)

When I read this parable a few years ago, I found myself relating the most to the servant who received two talents. For it is easy to fall into the trap of mediocrity: “Certainly, I’m not the most talented, but I’m not the worst either.” Yet when lying in the “average,” it is also easy to fall into despair when comparing oneself to those above, or into complacency when comparing oneself to those below. So I found myself admiring this servant who was faithful in the between these two great temptations. However, now I can see how naive it was to think that I can be any better than the” wicked and slothful servant”! What distinguishes these three servants is not the talents that they were given, but their obedience. And what obedience can I claim to compare myself with the “good and faithful servant”?

I can relate further to the lazy servant in an unfortunately profound way when I observe his excuse: “Master, I knew you to be a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed, so I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground. Here, you have what is yours.” Instead of owning up to his disobedience, this servant has the audacity to blame his inaction on his very master! He claims his master to be one who expects more than what is possible; he argues that his master had not prepared him adequately for the task assigned to him. This servant likely compared himself to the other servants and fell for that great temptation. “Of course *they* can be obedient. Look how much they have been given!” he may have thought to himself. Regardless, his dismay at what he had been given led him to the sin of inaction--passive, yet deliberate disobedience.

I realize my doubts about my calling here in Turkey betray a similar mindset as this wicked servant. On the surface, my thoughts resemble: “Lord, why have you brought me here? What am I to do?” And yet in the depths of my heart, I scream “Lord, why have you brought me here? What *can* I do?” I rue my lack of qualifications to be a missionary: my inability to learn language, my reluctance to be outgoing, my failure to love the people of Turkey. And surely, I am surrounded by those who have been greatly blessed and equipped for ministry. The people I work with have a heart for the Lord and for Turkey. The biographies I read are filled with people who seem to have been handcrafted by God to do his work. But myself? Yet as I drown in what seems to be self-pity, I am actually accusing the Lord for mistakenly giving me too arduous of a task. Like the wicked servant, I say to him, “You expect too much of me. You have given work for which you have not equipped me.” In blaming my lack of “talent,” I am blaming the one who gave me my talents!

The despair deepens when I observe the master’s response: “You wicked and slothful servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sown and gather where I scattered no seed? Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest.” We see here that the wickedness of the servant comes not from failure to find success but from failure to take action; the servant’s sin is *slothfulness*. While the servant tried to play off his laziness by acting in his master’s best interest (for to the servant, keeping the same amount of money was better than risking loss), the very least he could have done is to have invested the money with bankers so that it could accrue interest. Even minimal effort would have been better than his complete absence of effort! In fact, this makes it clear that in doing nothing with his master’s money, he *robbed* his master of what could have been made.

So I wonder, am I even giving the Lord the minimal amount of effort? Or am I paralyzed by self-pity? Unfortunately, I have no reason to contest the latter.

But there is hope in observing the righteous. The master here is not looking for success, but faithful obedience. This is made clear when both the servant who made 5 talents and the servant who made 2 are given the same response. But in some way, the two servants had the same measure of success as well. The one who was given 5 made 5; the one who was given 2 made 2. If this is the case, is it not clear that the master did indeed provide appropriately for the tasks that were given? While the sum desired by the master was not specified, if the one given 1 talent was supposed to have made 1 more, then following the model, this would have been a completely appropriate and sufficient allowance for the assignment.

Which then brings up a few encouraging applications. First, if obedience is what matters rather than success, then for what reason should we despair at our lack of talent? It is irrelevant! There is no talent that can augment or diminish one’s ability to obey. Therefore, all we can do, regardless of the lot given to us, is give forth our best effort. In doing so, we can understand that God has indeed equipped us appropriately for the task assigned to us and will reward our efforts accordingly.

Second, our obedience serves to be rewarded with more talent (and consequently, greater responsibility, as explained in the next application). For if we prove to be faithful with the little things assigned to us, then God will “set [us] over much”. And if God assigns us more difficult tasks, then he will also equip us appropriately for such tasks. And if we act to the contrary, then the little that been given to us will be taken away, for if we waste our talents and time, then we are wasting *God’s* talent and time.

While we cannot claim that, had the servant who had been given 5 talents only won 2 more, this servant would have been deemed unfaithful. But from verse 27 we can understand that there is a responsibility attached to the gifts God gives us. Further, we can infer that when we are blessed abundantly, we have a greater ability to produce more fruit. So, we can argue that Uncle Ben’s famous colloquialism--“With great power comes great responsibility”--holds biblical truth. Those who have been given much have a responsibility to *do* much.

Christ himself is the greatest model of this. He, who is perfect and was the most equipped to do God’s work, completed the ultimate assignment and displayed sublime obedience.